UFAL C++ Utils
Version 0.9.0-devel

Introduction
============

UFAL C++ Utils is a small C++ cross-platform library used in several UFAL
projects. It is released under MPL 2.0 license (http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/)
and is versioned using Semantic Versioning (http://semver.org/).

The supported platforms are Linux, OS X and Windows, supported compilers are
gcc, clang, tdm-gcc on Windows and Visual C++ 2015 or later on Windows.

Copyright 2015 by Institute of Formal and Applied Linguistics, Faculty of
Mathematics and Physics, Charles University in Prague, Czech Republic.

UFAL C++ Utils repository http://github.com/ufal/cpp_utils is hosted on GitHub.


UFAL C++ Utils Files
====================

Most of the following files are used as headers only, with methods defined
inline where possible.

For more detailed documentation, see the header files.


binary_decoder.h
----------------

The binary_decoder class allows deserialization of data encoded using
binary_encoder.  The serialization is performed using a memory dump, so only
basic value types are supported.


binary_encoder.h
----------------

The binary_encoder class allows serialization of data, which can be deserialized
using binary_decoder.  The serialization is performed using a memory dump, so
only basic value types are supported.


compressor.h
------------

The compressor class allow uncompressing and compressing content of
binary_decoder and binary_encoder. LZMA compression is used.

To use compressor::load method, link the compressor_load.cpp file. To use
compressor::save method, link the compressor_save.cpp file.


iostreams.h
-----------

The iostreams.h file contains methods for various initializations of C++
iostreams and for loading a whole paragraph from istream.


iostreams_xml.h
---------------

Using the xml_encoded class, content of a string_piece can be appended to an
ostream, while encoding <>& and optionally " using XML entities.


new_unique_ptr.h
----------------

The new_unique_ptr method creates a new instance of unique_ptr<T>, forwarding
all its argument to T constructor.


options.h
---------

The options class allow parsing options. For option can take either no value,
any value, or a specific set of values.

To use the options class, link options.cpp file.


parse_double.h
--------------

The parse_double methods parse a double.


parse_int.h
-----------

The parse_int methods parse a int.


process_args.h
--------------

Using process_args method, the given processor is called on all specified input
and output files.


split.h
-------

The split methods can split string or string_piece to a vector of tokens
delimited by a specified delimiter character.


string_piece.h
--------------

The string_piece structure holds a non-owning reference to a string of specified
length.


threadsafe_stack.h
------------------

The threadsafe_stack class implements a simple stack with push and pop methods,
which are thread-safe and implemented using lock-free operations.
